Add to ros2 documentation one or multiple tutorials to create a first simulation with Webots (#1)
cyberbotics/ros2_documentation: source/Tutorials/Simulators/Setting-up-a-Robot-Simulation-Webots.rst

Hence, what you get in simulation is very close to what you will observe when transferring your ROS 2 controllers to a real robot.

webots_ros2 is a package offering an interface between ROS2 and Webots with the help of the sub-package webots_ros2_driver that you will use in this tutorial.
There are also some other sub-packages containing demos with different robots such as the TurtleBot 3.
Such demos are detailed in the :doc:`../../Tutorials` page under the ``Demos`` section.

This tutorial will introduce you how to create your first simulation by using a custom robot and implementing a Python plugin derived from webots_ros2_driver.

Prerequisites
-------------

Previous tutorials
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This tutorial assumes you followed the tutorials :doc:`../Creating-Your-First-ROS2-Package` and :doc:`../Launch-Files/Using-ROS2-Launch-For-Large-Projects`.

Install Webots
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Go on the `Webots Github release page <https://github.com/cyberbotics/webots/releases/latest>`_ to download the Debian package and then run the following command, ``VERSION`` being the version of Webots you downloaded:

.. code-block:: bash

>         sudo apt install ./webots_VERSION_amd64.deb

Author: That is true. But in the case the user will build his robot or just want to open the world given to see what it looks like I think it will be great he can install it (before launching any `webots_ros2` related stuff)?

But a comment to indicate it can be automatically downloaded is good tho.

>         sudo apt install ./webots_VERSION_amd64.deb

Reviewer: I tend to agree with @lukicdarkoo: if not needed, this will simplify the instructions and we don't expect the user will do anything else than what (s)he is instructed during the tutorial, so I believe installing Webots explicitly is superfluous here.

>         sudo apt install ./webots_VERSION_amd64.deb

Author: Ok I will change that.

Start by creating a new package named ``my_package``.

.. code-block:: console

        ros2 pkg create --build-type ament_python --node-name my_robot_driver my_package

The option ``--node-name my_robot_driver`` is here to create a file you will modify later.
Now create new ``launch`` and ``worlds`` directories inside your ``my_package`` folder.
You should end with the following folder structure:

.. code-block:: console

          src
          └── my_package
              ├── launch
              ├── my_package
              │   ├── __init__.py
              │   └── my_robot_driver.py
              ├── resource
              │   └── my_package
              ├── test
              │   ├── test_copyright.py
              │   ├── test_flake8.py
              │   └── test_pep257.py
              ├── worlds
              ├── package.xml
              ├── setup.cfg
              └── setup.py

2 Setup the simulation world in Webots
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Simulations in Webots rely on world files containing objects called ``nodes`` (different from the standard ROS node).
You will need a world file with a robot to launch your simulation.

> Please go on this `page <https://github.com/cyberbotics/webots_ros2/wiki/Tutorial-Create-Webots-Robot>`_ to learn how to create your own robot or download a premade one.

Author: It is a good point to have something quickly runable for the user to test. Is the fact to go on our Github to download the file of the world the same that recommend them to import a premade robot ?

> Please go on this `page <https://github.com/cyberbotics/webots_ros2/wiki/Tutorial-Create-Webots-Robot>`_ to learn how to create your own robot or download a premade one.

Reviewer: Instead of inviting the users to another tutorial here, we should point directly to the zip file to download, e.g., https://github.com/cyberbotics/webots_ros2/wiki/assets/tutorialCreateWebotsRobot/my_world.zip and refer to the tutorial afterwards as an option in case the user want to understand the details of this file.

Your robot is now moving forward!

.. image:: Image/Step_25.png

9 Going further
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Your robot is now able to blindly follow your orders but it will be better if it was not colliding in the wall with the previous command after some time.

.. image:: Image/Step_26.png

You will now use the sensors of your robot to detect obstacles.

10 Updating package.xml and my_robot_webots.urdf
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

We will have to modify those files in order to make the sensors work.

Replace ``<exec_depend>geometry_msgs</exec_depend>`` by ``<exec_depend>sensor_msgs</exec_depend>`` in ``package.xml``.

Then in the file ``my_robot_webots.urdf`` add the following inside the ``<webots>`` tag:

.. literalinclude:: Code/my_robot_webots_sensor.urdf
    :language: xml
    :lines: 3-18

The ROS2 interface will then look for the **DistanceSensor** nodes, using the standard parameters in the ``<ros>`` it will activate them and use the given names for naming the corresponding topics.

11 Updating my_robot_driver.py
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Return to the file ``my_package/my_package/my_robot_driver.py`` and replace the code inside with:

> .. literalinclude:: Code/my_robot_driver_sensor.py

Author: You mean keep the first `my_robot_driver.py` that is listening `/cmd_vel` and just create a node that listen to the sensors and publish commands on `/cmd_vel`?

Don't you think that it would add a little bit more complexity as there is more files and more nodes to launch? (Thus an extra node is more clean if we want to keep the behavior of the first `my_robot_driver.py` , I admit).

> .. literalinclude:: Code/my_robot_driver_sensor.py

Reviewer 2: > You mean keep the first my_robot_driver.py that is listening /cmd_vel and just create a node that listen to the sensors and publish commands on /cmd_vel?

Exactly.

> Don't you think that it would add a little bit more complexity as there is more files and more nodes to launch? (Thus an extra node is more clean if we want to keep the behavior of the first my_robot_driver.py , I admit).

There is the same number of files and you have only one extra node to launch. Although it is slightly simpler to use Webots ROS 2 plugins it is generally a bad practice. The obstacle avoidance controller should work with a real robot as well.

> .. literalinclude:: Code/my_robot_driver_sensor.py

Author: I will change that.

Now create new ``launch`` and ``worlds`` directories inside your ``my_package`` folder.

.. code-block:: console

        cd my_package
        mkdir launch/ worlds/

You should end with the following folder structure:

.. code-block:: console

          src
          └── my_package
              ├── launch
              ├── my_package
              │   ├── __init__.py
              │   └── my_robot_driver.py
              ├── resource
              │   └── my_package
              ├── test
              │   ├── test_copyright.py
              │   ├── test_flake8.py
              │   └── test_pep257.py
              ├── worlds
              ├── package.xml
              ├── setup.cfg
              └── setup.py

2 Setup the simulation world in Webots
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Simulations in Webots rely on world files containing objects called ``nodes`` (different from the standard ROS node).
You will need a world file with a robot to launch your simulation.
Please `download this world file <https://github.com/cyberbotics/webots_ros2/wiki/assets/tutorialCreateWebotsRobot/my_world.zip>`_ and extract it in the folder ``my_package/worlds/``.

> A custom robot is already modeled in this world ``my_world.wbt``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is actually a fairly simple text file you can visualize in a text editor.
A simple robot is already included in this ``my_world.wbt`` world file.
```

3 Prepare the package.xml file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> In the ``<package format="3">`` balise add the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the following inside the ``<package format="3">`` tag:
```

    :lines: 18-25

The code below is used to start the two nodes and in case Webots is closed the other node ``my_robot_driver`` will also be shut down.

.. literalinclude:: Code/robot_launch.py
    :language: python
    :lines: 27-36

8 Test the code
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

From a terminal in your ROS2 workspace run:

.. code-block:: bash

            colcon build
            source install/local_setup.bash
            ros2 launch my_package robot_launch.py

in order to launch the simulation.
Then open a second terminal to send a command and run:

.. code-block:: bash

            ros2 topic pub /cmd_vel geometry_msgs/Twist  '{linear:  {x: 0.1, y: 0.0, z: 0.0}, angular: {x: 0.0, y: 0.0, z: 0.0}}'

Your robot is now moving forward!

.. image:: Image/Step_25.png

Your robot is now able to blindly follow your orders but it will be better if it was not colliding in the wall with the previous command after some time.

.. image:: Image/Step_26.png

To do so you will now use the sensors of your robot to detect obstacles.

9 Updating package.xml and my_robot_webots.urdf
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You will start by modify these two files in order to enable the sensors.

> Go to your file ``package.xml`` and in the ``<package format="3">`` balise add the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go to your file ``package.xml`` and in the ``<package format="3">`` tag add the following:
```

.. literalinclude:: Code/package_sensor.xml
    :language: xml
    :lines: 11

Then in the file ``my_robot_webots.urdf`` add the following inside the ``<webots>`` tag:

.. literalinclude:: Code/my_robot_webots_sensor.urdf
    :language: xml
    :lines: 3-18

The ROS2 interface will use the standard parameters in the ``<ros>`` tags to enable the **DistanceSensor** nodes and name their topics.

> 10 Creating a ROS node to avoid obstacle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10 Creating a ROS node to avoid obstacles
```

Finally a node is created to register a callback to a topic ``/cmd_vel``.

.. literalinclude:: Code/my_robot_driver.py
    :language: python
    :lines: 29-30

This callback function will simply register the last command recieved.

.. literalinclude:: Code/my_robot_driver.py
    :language: python
    :lines: 32-53

This function is called every step of the simulation.
If a non null command is in memory then motors commands will be computed and applied.
If the command ``X`` is negative, the robot will turn in place.
Otherwise it will have one wheel at ``MAX_SPEED`` and slow down the other to turn in case the command ``Y`` is not null.

.. note::

    The purpose of this code is only to show a simple example.
    In fact you could avoid the use of this python plugin by using another sub-package ``webots_ros2_control`` that will ease the control of a differential wheeled robot.

6 Modify the setup.py file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In this task you will modify the setup.py file to include the extra files you added.

Replace the code inside with the following code:

.. literalinclude:: Code/setup.py
    :language: python

This primarly modificate the code in two places.

> .. literalinclude:: Code/setup.py

Author: I agree for the `Here`.

Otherwise concerning code and explications it seems to not be hard constraint. [Here](https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/Tutorials/Writing-A-Simple-Py-Publisher-And-Subscriber.html#examine-the-code) is an example.

But generally the explanations come before the code so I will adapt this.

    :language: python
    :lines: 18-25

The node which interacts with a robot in the Webots simulation is located in the ``webots_ros2_driver`` package under name ``driver``.
It is necessary to run such a node for each robot in the simulation.
Typically, you provide it the ``robot_description`` parameters from a URDF file containing for this tutorial the Python plugin ``my_robot_driver.py``.

.. literalinclude:: Code/robot_launch.py
    :language: python
    :lines: 27-36

The code here is standard to simply start the two nodes and in case Webots is closed the other node ``my_robot_driver`` will also be shut down.

8 Test the code
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

From a terminal in your ROS2 working directory run:

.. code-block:: bash

            colcon build
            source install/local_setup.bash
            ros2 launch my_package robot_launch.py

in order to launch the simulation.
Then open a second terminal to send a command and run:

.. code-block:: bash

            ros2 topic pub /cmd_vel geometry_msgs/Twist  '{linear:  {x: 0.1, y: 0.0, z: 0.0}, angular: {x: 0.0, y: 0.0, z: 0.0}}'

Your robot is now moving forward!

.. image:: Image/Step_25.png

> 9 Going further

Reviewer 3: The `going further` part actually includes all the following

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Your robot is now able to blindly follow your orders but it will be better if it was not colliding in the wall with the previous command after some time.

.. image:: Image/Step_26.png

You will now use the sensors of your robot to detect obstacles.

10 Updating package.xml and my_robot_webots.urdf
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You will start by slightly modify these two files in order to make the enable the sensors.
Go to your file ``package.xml`` and in the ``<package format="3">`` balise add the following:

.. literalinclude:: Code/package_sensor.xml
    :language: xml
    :lines: 11

Then in the file ``my_robot_webots.urdf`` add the following inside the ``<webots>`` tag:

.. literalinclude:: Code/my_robot_webots_sensor.urdf
    :language: xml
    :lines: 3-18

The ROS2 interface will then look for the **DistanceSensor** nodes, using the standard parameters in the ``<ros>`` tags it will activate them and use the given names for naming the corresponding topics.

11 Creating a ROS node to avoid obstacle
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Your robot will use a standard ROS node in order to detect the wall and send commands to avoid it.

> Add a file ``obstacle_avoider.py`` to ``my_package/my_package/`` and fill it with:

Reviewer 3: consistency (in .. create a file... )

.. literalinclude:: Code/obstacle_avoider.py
    :language: python

> This node will simply create a publisher for the command and subscribe to the sensors topics here:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This node will create a publisher for the command and subscribe to the sensors topics here:
```

.. literalinclude:: Code/obstacle_avoider.py
    :language: python
    :lines: 14-17

When a measure is recieved from the left sensor it will be saved:

.. literalinclude:: Code/obstacle_avoider.py
    :language: python
    :lines: 19-20

> And finally when a measure is recieved from the right sensor a command will be sent to the topic ``/cmd_vel`` in case any of the two sensors has detect an obstacle.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Finally, a command will be sent to the topic ``/cmd_vel`` when a measure is received from a sensor, i.e. when one of the two sensors has detected an obstacle.
```

If the right sensor detects an obstacle the command will make the robot turn in place clockwise.

> Otherwise if only the left sensor detects an obstacle the command will make the robot turn right.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Otherwise, if only the left sensor detects an obstacle the command will make the robot turn anticlockwise.
```

.. literalinclude:: Code/obstacle_avoider.py
    :language: python
    :lines: 22-37

12 Updating setup.py and robot_launch.py
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> You will also have to slightly modify these two other files in order to launch your new node.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You have to modify these two other files to launch your new node.
```

> Go to your file ``setup.py`` and add ``'obstacle_avoider = my_package.obstacle_avoider:main'`` to ``'console_scripts'``:

Reviewer 3: consistency

.. literalinclude:: Code/setup_sensor.py
    :language: python
    :lines: 24-27

> And finally in your file ``robot_launch.py`` replace ``def generate_launch_description():`` by the code bellow:

Reviewer 3: consistency

.. literalinclude:: Code/robot_launch_sensor.py
    :language: python
    :lines: 10-42

> This will create an ``obstacle_avoider`` node and it will be prepared to be launched in ``LaunchDescription``.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This will create an ``obstacle_avoider`` node. It will be prepared to be launched in ``LaunchDescription``.
```
Sentence a bit long, not clear but don't know how to do better.

13 Test the obstacle avoidance code
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Repeat the same commands as in tasks ``8`` to test your code.

> From a terminal in your ROS2 working directory run:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
From a terminal in your ROS2 workspace run:
```

.. code-block:: bash

            colcon build
            source install/local_setup.bash
            ros2 launch my_package robot_launch.py

Then open a second terminal to send a command and run:

.. code-block:: bash

            ros2 topic pub /cmd_vel geometry_msgs/Twist  '{linear:  {x: 0.1, y: 0.0, z: 0.0}, angular: {x: 0.0, y: 0.0, z: 0.0}}'

> First your robot will go forward and before hitting the wall it will turn clockwise.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Your robot will go forward and before hitting the wall it will turn clockwise.
```

**Tutorial level:** Advanced

**Time:** 20 minutes

.. contents:: Contents
   :depth: 2
   :local:

Background
----------

Several robot simulators can be used with ROS 2, such as Gazebo, Ignition, Webots, etc.
Unlike turtlesim, they provide fairly realistic results relying on physics-based models for robots, sensors, actuators and objects.
Hence, what you observe in simulation is very close to what you will get when transferring your ROS 2 controllers to a real robot.
In this tutorial, you are going to use the Webots robot simulator to set-up and run a very simple ROS 2 simulation scenario.

The ``webots_ros2`` package provides an interface between ROS 2 and Webots.
It includes several sub-packages, but in this tutorial, you are going to use only the ``webots_ros2_driver`` sub-package to implement a Python plugin controlling a simulated robot.
Some other sub-packages contain demos with different robots such as the TurtleBot3.
They are documented in the :doc:`../../Tutorials` page under the Demos section.

Prerequisites
-------------

It is recommended to understand basic ROS principles covered in the beginner :doc:`../../Tutorials`.

> In particular, :doc:`../Turtlesim/Introducing-Turtlesim`, :doc:`../Topics/Understanding-ROS2-Topics`, :doc:`../Workspace/Creating-A-Workspace`, :doc:`../Creating-Your-First-ROS2-Package` and :doc:`../Launch-Files/Creating-Launch-Files` are useful prerequisites.

Reviewer: No, but they give a flavor on how to work with a super simple, non-realistic, simulator. So, this might be helpful, although not strictly necessary.

Finally, you will need to install ``webots_ros2_driver`` with this command:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Linux

      .. code-block:: console

        sudo apt update

>         sudo apt-get install ros-{DISTRO}-webots-ros2-driver

Reviewer: In that case, I would rather remove the `-get` suffix in both cases because it is the old legacy version.

   .. group-tab:: Windows

      .. code-block:: console

        # Install webots_ros2_driver and dependencies
        cd \dev_ws
        pip install rosinstall_generator
        rosinstall_generator webots_ros2_driver --deps --exclude-path=C:\dev\ros2_{DISTRO} > deps.repos
        vcs import src < deps.repos

        # Build the packages
        colcon build

        # Source this workspace
        call install\local_setup.bat

.. note::

>     If you want to install the whole ``webots_ros2`` package, follow these `instructions <https://github.com/cyberbotics/webots_ros2/wiki/Getting-Started`_.

Reviewer 3: broken markdown, also it is pointing to the same tutorial

:download:`Download this world file <Code/my_world.wbt>` and move it inside ``my_package/worlds/``.

This is actually a fairly simple text file you can visualize in a text editor.
A simple robot is already included in this ``my_world.wbt`` world file.

.. note::

    In case you want to learn how to create your own robot model in Webots, you can check this `tutorial <https://github.com/cyberbotics/webots_ros2/wiki/Tutorial-Create-Webots-Robot>`_.

3 Change the my_robot_driver.py file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ``webots_ros2_driver`` sub-package automatically creates a ROS 2 interface for most sensors.
In this task, you will extend this interface by changing the ``my_robot_driver.py`` file.

.. note::

    The purpose of this tutorial is to show a basic example with a minimum number of dependencies.
    However, you could avoid the use of this Python plugin by using another ``webots_ros2`` sub-package named ``webots_ros2_control``, introducing a new dependency.
    This other sub-package creates an interface with the ``ros2_control`` package that facilitates the control of a differential wheeled robot.

> Open ``my_package/my_robot_driver.py`` in your favorite editor and replace its contents with the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Open ``src/my_package/my_package/my_robot_driver.py`` in your favorite editor and replace its contents with the following:
```
to avoid confusion with my_package folders

The ``command_message`` will register at least a forward speed in ``linear.x`` in order to make the robot move when no obstacle is detected.
If any of the two sensors detect an obstacle, ``command_message`` will also register a rotational speed in ``angular.z`` in order to make the robot turn right.

.. literalinclude:: Code/obstacle_avoider.py
    :language: python
    :lines: 22-32

10 Updating setup.py and robot_launch.py
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You have to modify these two other files to launch your new node.
Edit ``setup.py`` and replace ``'console_scripts'`` with:

.. literalinclude:: Code/setup_sensor.py
    :language: python
    :lines: 24-26

This will add an entry point for the ``obstacle_avoider`` node.

Go to the file ``robot_launch.py`` and replace ``def generate_launch_description():`` with:

.. literalinclude:: Code/robot_launch_sensor.py
    :language: python
    :lines: 10-42

This will create an ``obstacle_avoider`` node that will be included in the ``LaunchDescription``.

11 Test the obstacle avoidance code
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Repeat the same commands as in tasks ``8`` to test your code.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Repeat the same commands as in tasks ``7`` to test your code.
```

From a terminal in your ROS 2 workspace run:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Linux

      .. code-block:: console

        colcon build
        source install/local_setup.bash

>         ros2 launch my_package robot_launch.py

Reviewer 3: do not work for me when I follow the step 7 again. The controller does not start. Also when I launch the command ros2 launch I get: 

```
WARNING: Target Webots version `R2021b` is not found, fallback to `R2021b revision 1`
[INFO] [webots-1]: process started with pid [201634]
[INFO] [driver-2]: process started with pid [201636]
[driver-2] Cannot open file: /tmp/webots-201634-vLpU51/WEBOTS_SERVER (retry count 1)
[driver-2] Cannot open file: /tmp/webots-201634-vLpU51/WEBOTS_SERVER (retry count 2)
```

Author: As discussed together, it seems you miss a part of the tutorial.
Was it easy to miss that part or unclear?

Reviewer 3: I wrote it in the last review

        cd \dev_ws
        pip install rosinstall_generator
        rosinstall_generator webots_ros2 --deps --exclude-path=C:\dev\ros2_{DISTRO} > deps.repos
        vcs import src < deps.repos

        # Build the packages
        colcon build

        # Source this workspace
        call install\local_setup.bat

Tasks
-----

1 Create the package structure
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Let's organize the code in a custom ROS 2 package.
Create a new package named ``my_package`` from the ``src`` folder of your ROS 2 workspace.

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Linux

      .. code-block:: console

        cd ~/dev_ws/src
        ros2 pkg create --build-type ament_python --node-name my_robot_driver my_package

   .. group-tab:: Windows

      .. code-block:: console

        cd \dev_ws\src
        ros2 pkg create --build-type ament_python --node-name my_robot_driver my_package

The ``--node-name my_robot_driver`` option should create a ``my_robot_driver.py`` template Python plugin in the ``my_package`` subfolder that you will modify later.
Let's add a ``launch`` and a ``worlds`` folder inside the ``my_package`` folder.

.. code-block:: console

        cd my_package

>         mkdir launch worlds

Reviewer: This doesn't work on Windows.

Author: No problem on my side with `mkdir` in Visual Studio Command Prompt.

              │   ├── test_flake8.py
              │   └── test_pep257.py
              ├── worlds/
              ├── package.xml
              ├── setup.cfg
              └── setup.py

2 Setup the simulation world
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You will need a world file containing a robot to launch your simulation.
:download:`Download this world file <Code/my_world.wbt>` and move it inside ``my_package/worlds/``.

This is actually a fairly simple text file you can visualize in a text editor.
A simple robot is already included in this ``my_world.wbt`` world file.

.. note::

    In case you want to learn how to create your own robot model in Webots, you can check this `tutorial <https://github.com/cyberbotics/webots_ros2/wiki/Tutorial-Create-Webots-Robot>`_.

3 Prepare the package.xml file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Open the ``package.xml`` file in your favorite editor and add the following packages inside the ``<package format="3">`` tag:

.. literalinclude:: Code/package.xml
    :language: xml
    :lines: 10-12

These packages will be needed by the ``my_robot_driver.py`` plugin.

4 Change the my_robot_driver.py file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> 

Reviewer 2: Here we need an explanation of why we want to change the file. We should mention:
- that `webots_ros2_driver` automatically creates a ROS 2 interface for most sensors
- that one can extend the interface using C++ or Python plugins
- that the differential drive Webots/ROS plugin doesn't exist as it is a part of the `ros2_control` package, but we are creating this file for demonstration purposes

This will allow the ``webots_ros2_driver`` ROS node to launch the plugin.

In the ``my_package/resource`` folder create a text file named ``my_robot.urdf`` with this contents:

.. literalinclude:: Code/my_robot.urdf
    :language: xml

.. note::

    This simple URDF file doesn't contain any link or joint information about the robot as it is not needed in this tutorial.
    However, URDF files usually contain much more information as explained in the :doc:`../URDF/URDF-Main`.

6 Create the launch file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Let's create now the launch file to easily launch the simulation and the ROS controller with a single command.
In the ``my_package/launch`` folder create a new text file named ``robot_launch.py`` with this code:

.. literalinclude:: Code/robot_launch.py
    :language: python

The ``WebotsLauncher`` object is a custom action that allows you to start a Webots simulation instance.
You have to specify in the constructor which world file the simulator will open.

.. literalinclude:: Code/robot_launch.py
    :language: python
    :lines: 14-16

Then, the ROS node interacting with the simulated robot is created.

> This node, named ``driver``, is located in the ``webots_ros2_driver`` package.

Reviewer 2: Maybe, we should also explain to users that the `driver` node uses a custom protocol based on IPC and shared memory to communicate with a robot in the simulation. A little technical details might be interesting to users

In your case, you need to run a single instance of this node, because you have a single robot in the simulation.
But if you had more robots in the simulation, you would have to run one instance of this node per robot.
The ``robot_description`` parameter holds the contents of the URDF file which refers to the ``my_robot_driver.py`` Python plugin.

.. literalinclude:: Code/robot_launch.py
    :language: python
    :lines: 18-25

> Finally, the two nodes are started in such a way that if the ``webots`` launcher node is shutdown, the other ``my_robot_driver`` node will be shutdown as well.

Reviewer 2: This sentence is a bit confusing. I would use one sentence to explain:
```
        webots,
        my_robot_driver,
```
and another one to explain:
```
launch.actions.RegisterEventHandler(
            event_handler=launch.event_handlers.OnProcessExit(
                target_action=webots,
                on_exit=[launch.actions.EmitEvent(event=launch.events.Shutdown())],
            )
        )
```
The second part is optional and it shutdowns all nodes once the Webots process dies.

And closing Webots from the graphical user interface will automatically shutdown the ``webots`` launcher and hence the ``my_robot_driver`` node.

.. literalinclude:: Code/robot_launch.py
    :language: python
    :lines: 27-36

7 Modify the setup.py file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Finally before you can start the launch file, you have to modify the setup.py file to include the extra files you added.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, before you can start the launch file, you have to modify the `setup.py` file to include the extra files you added.
```

.. note::

    If you want to install Webots manually, you can download it `here <https://github.com/cyberbotics/webots/releases/latest>`_.

Then, open a second terminal and send a command with:

.. code-block:: console

            ros2 topic pub /cmd_vel geometry_msgs/Twist  '{linear:  {x: 0.1, y: 0.0, z: 0.0}, angular: {x: 0.0, y: 0.0, z: 0.0}}'

The robot is now moving forward.

.. image:: Image/Robot_moving_forward.png

At this point, the robot is able to blindly follow your motor commands.
But it will eventually bump into the wall as you order it to move forwards.

.. image:: Image/Robot_colliding_wall.png

To prevent this, let's use the sensors of the robot to detect the obstacles and avoid them.
Close the Webots window, this should also shutdown your ROS nodes started from the launcher.
Close also the topic command with ``Ctrl-C`` in the second terminal.

9 Updating package.xml and my_robot.urdf
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Let's modify these two files to enable the sensors.
Open ``package.xml`` and add the following content inside the ``<package format="3">`` tag:

> .. literalinclude:: Code/package_sensor.xml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. literalinclude:: Code/package_sensor.xml
```
Maybe we can avoid explaining this line as well because it is a dependency of webots_ros2_driver

Author: Do you suggest to put it in the creation of the package?

In my opinion the user might not understand why there is this package when he is in the 1st part of the tutorial (without the sensors).
Currently the tutorial will use directly anything that has been setup, so the user can make links between the different files.

Reviewer 2: We just not include it in the tutorial. `sensor_msgs` comes with `ros-base`, so it should without explicitly specifying it

Reviewer 2: It is even a part of `ros-core`:
```
$ apt-rdepends ros-galactic-ros-core | grep sensor
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
  Depends: ros-galactic-sensor-msgs
ros-galactic-sensor-msgs
  Depends: ros-galactic-sensor-msgs
```

Don't get me wrong, if a package is going into production I would explicitly put `sensor_msgs` as a dependency. However, if we want to make the tutorial a little bit simpler then there is no strong need to mention it.

Author: Ok I will remove it then, thank you!

It includes several sub-packages, but in this tutorial, you are going to use only the ``webots_ros2_driver`` sub-package to implement a Python plugin controlling a simulated robot.
Some other sub-packages contain demos with different robots such as the TurtleBot3.
They are documented in the :doc:`../../Tutorials` page under the Demos section.

Prerequisites
-------------

It is recommended to understand basic ROS principles covered in the beginner :doc:`../../Tutorials`.
In particular, :doc:`../Turtlesim/Introducing-Turtlesim`, :doc:`../Topics/Understanding-ROS2-Topics`, :doc:`../Workspace/Creating-A-Workspace`, :doc:`../Creating-Your-First-ROS2-Package` and :doc:`../Launch-Files/Creating-Launch-Files` are useful prerequisites.
Finally, you will need to install ``webots_ros2`` with this command:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Linux

      .. code-block:: console

        sudo apt update
        sudo apt-get install ros-{DISTRO}-webots-ros2

   .. group-tab:: Windows

      On Windows you will have to clone ``webots_ros2`` repository and install dependencies in order to use it.

      .. code-block:: console

        # Install webots_ros2 and dependencies

>         cd \ros2_ws

Reviewer: In most of the other tutorials, this folder is named `dev_ws` instead. Only a few tutorials seems to use `ros2_ws` (after introducing it explicitly). I believe it is better to remain consistent with the majority of the tutorials:
```suggestion
        cd \dev_ws
```

        pip install rosinstall_generator
        rosinstall_generator webots_ros2 --deps --exclude-path=C:\dev\ros2_{DISTRO} > deps.repos
        vcs import src < deps.repos

        # Build the packages
        colcon build

        # Source this workspace
        call install\local_setup.bat

Tasks
-----

1 Create the package structure
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Let's organize the code in a custom ROS 2 package.
Create a new package named ``my_package`` from the ``src`` folder of your ROS 2 workspace.

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Linux

      .. code-block:: console

>         cd ~/ros2_ws/src

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        cd ~/dev_ws/src
```

        ros2 pkg create --build-type ament_python --node-name my_robot_driver my_package

   .. group-tab:: Windows

      .. code-block:: console

>         cd \ros2_ws\src

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        cd \dev_ws\src
```

You have to modify these two other files to launch your new node.
Edit ``setup.py`` and replace ``'console_scripts'`` with:

.. literalinclude:: Code/setup_sensor.py
    :language: python
    :lines: 24-26

This will add an entry point for the ``obstacle_avoider`` node.

Go to the file ``robot_launch.py`` and replace ``def generate_launch_description():`` with:

.. literalinclude:: Code/robot_launch_sensor.py
    :language: python
    :lines: 10-42

This will create an ``obstacle_avoider`` node that will be included in the ``LaunchDescription``.

12 Test the obstacle avoidance code
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Repeat the same commands as in tasks ``8`` to test your code.
From a terminal in your ROS 2 workspace run:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Linux

      .. code-block:: console

        colcon build
        source install/local_setup.bash
        ros2 launch my_package robot_launch.py

   .. group-tab:: Windows

      .. code-block:: console

        colcon build
        call install/local_setup.bat
        ros2 launch my_package robot_launch.py           

Your robot should go forward and before hitting the wall it should turn clockwise.

> .. image:: Image/Robot_clock_wise.png

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. image:: Image/Robot_clockwise.png
```
And we have to rename the file as well.

Reviewer: Sorry, it would be better with a verb to be consistent with other file names.
```suggestion
.. image:: Image/Robot_turning_clockwise.png
```

Author: Done.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Finally, before you can start the launch file, you have to modify the ``setup.py`` file to include the extra files you added.
Open ``my_package/setup.py`` and replace its contents with:

.. literalinclude:: Code/setup.py
    :language: python

This sets-up the package and adds in the ``data_files`` variable the newly added files: ``my_world.wbt``, ``my_robot.urdf`` and ``robot_launch.py``.

7 Test the code
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

From a terminal in your ROS2 workspace run:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Linux

      .. code-block:: console

        colcon build
        source install/local_setup.bash
        ros2 launch my_package robot_launch.py

   .. group-tab:: Windows

      .. code-block:: console

        colcon build
        call install\local_setup.bat
        ros2 launch my_package robot_launch.py

This will launch the simulation. 
Webots will be automatically installed on the first run in case it was not already installed.

.. note::

    If you want to install Webots manually, you can download it `here <https://github.com/cyberbotics/webots/releases/latest>`_.

Then, open a second terminal and send a command with:

.. code-block:: console

>             ros2 topic pub /cmd_vel geometry_msgs/Twist  "linear: { x: -0.1 }"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            ros2 topic pub /cmd_vel geometry_msgs/Twist  "linear: { x: 0.1 }"
```
To go forward

The robot is now moving forward.

.. image:: Image/Robot_moving_forward.png

At this point, the robot is able to blindly follow your motor commands.
But it will eventually bump into the wall as you order it to move forwards.

.. image:: Image/Robot_colliding_wall.png

To prevent this, let's use the sensors of the robot to detect the obstacles and avoid them.
Close the Webots window, this should also shutdown your ROS nodes started from the launcher.
Close also the topic command with ``Ctrl+C`` in the second terminal.

8 Updating my_robot.urdf
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You have to modify the URDF file in order to enable the sensors.

> In ``my_robot.urdf`` add the following content inside the ``<webots>`` tag:

Reviewer 3: It was not working for me because I replaced the content inside the `webots` tag and so remove the `plugin`. Through the tutorial, we only have to replace code or create new file. To avoid the confusion, I suggest either to specify that we need to keep plugin or add the plugin into the proposed code and change `add` by `replace`.

The ``command_message`` will register at least a forward speed in ``linear.x`` in order to make the robot move when no obstacle is detected.
If any of the two sensors detect an obstacle, ``command_message`` will also register a rotational speed in ``angular.z`` in order to make the robot turn right.

.. literalinclude:: Code/obstacle_avoider.py
    :language: python
    :dedent: 4
    :lines: 22-32

10 Updating setup.py and robot_launch.py
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You have to modify these two other files to launch your new node.
Edit ``setup.py`` and replace ``'console_scripts'`` with:

.. literalinclude:: Code/setup_sensor.py
    :language: python
    :dedent: 8
    :lines: 24-26

This will add an entry point for the ``obstacle_avoider`` node.

Go to the file ``robot_launch.py`` and replace ``def generate_launch_description():`` with:

.. literalinclude:: Code/robot_launch_sensor.py
    :language: python
    :lines: 10-42

This will create an ``obstacle_avoider`` node that will be included in the ``LaunchDescription``.

11 Test the obstacle avoidance code
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Repeat the same first commands as in task ``7`` to launch the simulation.
> From a terminal in your ROS 2 workspace run:
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

The ``--node-name my_robot_driver`` option should create a ``my_robot_driver.py`` template Python plugin in the ``my_package`` subfolder that you will modify later.
The ``--dependencies rclpy geometry_msgs webots_ros2_driver`` option specifies the packages needed by the ``my_robot_driver.py`` plugin in the ``package.xml`` file.
Let's add a ``launch`` and a ``worlds`` folder inside the ``my_package`` folder.

.. code-block:: console

        cd my_package
        mkdir launch worlds

You should end up with the following folder structure:

.. code-block:: console

          src/
          └── my_package/
              ├── launch/
              ├── my_package/
              │   ├── __init__.py
              │   └── my_robot_driver.py
              ├── resource/
              │   └── my_package
              ├── test/
              │   ├── test_copyright.py
              │   ├── test_flake8.py
              │   └── test_pep257.py
              ├── worlds/
              ├── package.xml
              ├── setup.cfg
              └── setup.py

2 Setup the simulation world
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You will need a world file containing a robot to launch your simulation.

> :download:`Download this world file <Code/my_world.wbt>` and move it inside ``my_package/worlds/``.

Reviewer 2: I am not sure whether it is a good idea, but we can provide a curl command for it. I saw they used it in the main ROS tutorial for Windows, so ROS assumes there is the curl command. However, the curl command throws an HTTPS-related error when called from the VS 2019 command prompt.

Reviewer: I would avoid it if it throws errors in the console... And it seems the VS 2019 command prompt is often used with ROS 2, isn't it?

Reviewer 2: That's true, it is always used for compilation, so for this tutorial as well. I agree, it would be nice, but since we cannot find a clean solution it is better to avoid it.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Finally, before you can start the launch file, you have to modify the ``setup.py`` file to include the extra files you added.
Open ``my_package/setup.py`` and replace its contents with:

.. literalinclude:: Code/setup.py
    :language: python

This sets-up the package and adds in the ``data_files`` variable the newly added files: ``my_world.wbt``, ``my_robot.urdf`` and ``robot_launch.py``.

7 Test the code
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

From a terminal in your ROS2 workspace run:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Linux

      .. code-block:: console

        colcon build
        source install/local_setup.bash
        ros2 launch my_package robot_launch.py

   .. group-tab:: Windows

      .. code-block:: console

        colcon build
        call install\local_setup.bat
        ros2 launch my_package robot_launch.py

This will launch the simulation. 
Webots will be automatically installed on the first run in case it was not already installed.

.. note::

    If you want to install Webots manually, you can download it `here <https://github.com/cyberbotics/webots/releases/latest>`_.

Then, open a second terminal and send a command with:

.. code-block:: console

>             source install/setup.bash

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
This is not needed as we don't use any custom messages

>             ros2 topic pub /cmd_vel geometry_msgs/Twist  '{linear:  {x: 0.1, y: 0.0, z: 0.0}, angular: {x: 0.0, y: 0.0, z: 0.0}}'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            ros2 topic pub /cmd_vel geometry_msgs/Twist  "linear: { x: -0.1 }"
```
Single quotes don't work with Windows, also, it can be simplified

11 Test the obstacle avoidance code
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Repeat the same first commands as in task ``7`` to launch the simulation.

> From a terminal in your ROS 2 workspace run:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As in task ``7`` to launch the simulation, from a terminal in your ROS 2 workspace run:
```
to not make the impression that we have to repeat the commands of task 7 before moving to the next task.

Reviewer: (I just edited your proposal to make it a little bit simpler)

Reviewer 3: it could be nice to change the background of the code sections when they are related to explication

Author: It seems not so easy to do it. I do not find a way to change only specific `literalinclude`.
I tried to play with `:emphasize-lines:` but the background is also yellow so we can not see any change.

Furthermore it will be quite different from all the other tutorials as none of them is changing the default background color.
@omichel do you think I should spend more time on this?

Reviewer: > @omichel do you think I should spend more time on this?

No.
